So here I am back in the application and what you might have noticed before already is that whenever
does app restarts you get these warnings here in our browser on a P.C. or a Mac book Dad.
These calls were not available with clear devices something now that is they are all linked from older
times and depending at the point of view your viewing distance might not even occur anymore.
But what's basically happening here is that when we have a look at the app component here you see in
the constructor we call the initialize app.
And there we wait for the platform to be ready and if it is ready then we tried to call status bar style
default and splash screen height.
Now what's this all.
Now the platform here this platform is a service that is injected and the platform is provided by at
ionic angular.
Now the platform is a really helpful service that allows you to detect well whenever.
Basically the platform on which you wrap runs is ready.
But here you can also learn more about your platform.
You can find out if you're currently in landscape or portrait mode.
You can get the dimensions off the platform and you can also check with is what platform you're running
on.
And here values are Android I guess.
Is it a platform that supports capacitor or is capacitor enabled.
Is it a desktop.
You're running on is a hybrid environment so you can play around with that.
You can also just try different values here and console log to resolve to see when which check returns
true.
And this can be helpful whenever you have code that you only want to run under certain circumstances.
So whenever you have code where you know I only want to execute this code if I'm able on platform x
y is set and I will come back to that later when we'll utilize this.
So that's the platform and what's the status bar and splash screen.
These are all injected services here.
Status bar and splash screen and they are actually coming from a package named ionic native.
Now these specific packages here are stemming from the court of a world that they offer.
I don't really want to use them here.
Instead I want to use equivalence from capacitor.
If you have a look at the capacitor core API is here you see a splash screen and a status bar API there
as well and you can learn more about it in these official docs here of course.
Now I want to get rid of these two Cordova plugins here and therefore we also have to get rid of the
injection year instead we'll do the same with the capacitor API.
And for that let's import them here.
Let's import something from and then you import from at capacitor slash core so from add capacitors
slash core what you can import there is a plug ins object.
Dad is basically an object that bundles all the plug ins takes post by a capacitor.
Now in initialize app I still wait for the platform to be ready before I do anything which is my signal
that everything loaded.
But then I'll check if And now I'll also import capacitor itself here.
So plug ins and capacitor is imported.
I check if capacitor is plugged in a way lable splash screen.
And if it is available I call plug ins from that plugins object we're importing splash screen height
and his hides this large screen which is automatically shown when the application boots.
You can learn more about the configuration of the splash screen here in the official docs and we'll
actually dive into setting our own splash screen later in the deployment section of this course.
But here you can learn how you could set the auto height duration because it will height the splashdown
automatically after a certain amount of time with the help of to get past the conflict.
Jason File but hiding it manually once the app is ready is of course what you should do because Dad
will typically hide it faster than offered his auto height time that you can set up.
Still you can learn more about the configuration of the splash screen here if you want you will dive
into providing our own splash screen later in the course.
For now let's go with that.
And now regarding the status bar here we don't actually need to call that style default method.
Capacitor calls it doesn't provide that method because it doesn't need it.
So with capacitor we only need to hide the splash screen and if we do that and we let this reload it
shouldn't change much here on the web app.
But one thing it should change is that we don't have these warnings anymore.
Now let's also have a look at our application as it runs on mobile devices.
And for this let's try it on Android first with ionic capacitor run Android.
Here in the project folder and this will now build the application and then also build it for android
and open Android Studio which then allows us to launch it.
So let's wait for that here it is now.
I'll click that play button that run app button here and then we can choose a real connect device or
any of these emulators and I'll go with an emulator here and now it will start that emulator for me
and then launched the app on that emulator and here it is launching
and this looks quite good.
We have our status bar here and so that definitely all works and we can navigate around and play around
with our app.
Now let's all try it on IAW by running ionic capacitor run IOW so that this is all the built for IWC
and X code is open up.
Of course ISIS only works on mac os systems so you can't run this on Windows and here it is opened in
X code.
Now let me also pick a device here and then run the app on that.
So now it will build it here in X code and then open that emulator and run the app on that emulator
that is looking nice.
We see our application that all seems to work.
So this is our first glimpse at capacitor.
Here we just replaced some cord of a plug ins with it but nonetheless this is how a capacitor generally
works and how we will use it.
Now let's use it to provide an alternative to picking a place on a map.
Let's allow a user to auto locate himself by using a feature called geo location.